# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* **Item variety** - There are only two items currently implemented, with only one per player.
* **Hacking puzzles** - There are no built in puzzles or mini-games, limiting my game's critical thinking requirements
* **More complex item interactions** - There's no support for equipping an item or merging items.
* **Graphics** - There aren't currently any item graphics or icons.
* **Tutorials** - There is no walkthrough functionality and minimal instructions or information for items and mechanics.
* **Misc. features** - No "turning off your phone", or spectator functionality.

I will assess these limitations in future development cycles and decide how or whether to implement additional functionality.

## Maintenance

My game will require separate strategies depending on the direction I want to take my project in. I will assess whether it makes sense to maintain my current (small) feature-set or to expand functionality and potentially introduce more bugs.

#### Current Size

The [#short-term-bug-fixes](4.3-maintenance-and-future-development.md#short-term-bug-fixes "mention") details my development workload and plan if I were to mostly focus on maintenance and my game were to remain largely in its current form. To ensure that my game is playable and ready for release, I will focus primarily on fixing bugs, and implementing a tutorial or walkthrough system, to enable new players to learn the game. However, most of the features described in [#current-limitations-of-project](4.3-maintenance-and-future-development.md#current-limitations-of-project "mention"), will not be addressed as do not have a significant impact on usability.

The size of my codebase can be healthily maintained by me, assuming its size remains remains relatively constant. If I wanted to better market my game's release or handle licensing with [#shine-tv](../1-analysis/1.2-stakeholders.md#shine-tv "mention"), I would likely need to bring another person with more experience in marketing or licensing onboard. Hosting would be handled by deployment on [Hop.io](https://hop.io), a hosting platform optimized for the socket and real-time focus of my game. I would need to ensure adequate resources hence performance, but minimal maintenance of hosting infrastructure would be required by me.

My game's code is hosted on GitHub, and currently I intend for my codebases to remain closed source. This is in order to protect the potential to explore monetization in the future.

#### Room for Growth

Before new features can be implemented, the short term development plan would need to be implemented as this would fix bugs and performance issues, as well as refactoring the codebase to allow for better clarity, maintainability and hence extendibility. Following this, I will evaluate the  [#current-limitations-of-project](4.3-maintenance-and-future-development.md#current-limitations-of-project "mention") to determine the new features I need to add and what an ideal finished game would look like.

As long as I maintain a coherent and readable code structure, I don't anticipate needing to introduce more developers in the short to medium term. However, if the scope of my project expands or I want to add more complex functionality, more developers may be needed. I would need to onboard them onto the project, but by following good file structure and maintaining readable code, I anticipate this would be a fairly quick process.

In the spirit of my game (teamwork and collaboration), I would likely crowdsource many feature suggestions and bug reports, by creating a forum or implementing a bug report form. This would enable a more stable game, and inform me of previously unknown issues, as well as ensuring my testing was even more comprehensive.

If my game's popularity grew, and many feature requests and bug reports were created, I would likely need to hire separate developers to handle different parts of the game, as well as developers specialized in creating rigorous, programmed unit tests. Hopefully through this process, each developer would become well-versed in their part of the codebase, and very unique or specific bugs could be addressed quickly and easily, allowing for new features to be created, with collaboration between the relevant developers, to rapidly grow my game.

## Future Development

### Short Term Plan

#### Bug Fixes

Before any other modifications, any existing bugs in my game need to be addressed - even minor issues, as they could become more profound as a result of future development. Below is a list of bugs, and how anticipate fixing them:

* _The game host encounters a runtime exception after the game has has ended_ _(intermittently)_: I was unable to replicate this issue, given it behaves intermittently, so more testing is needed to determine its cause.
* _If one uses a drone search while another is still active, the new drone search overlay will not be displayed_: To fix this, I would (temporarily) reverse the effects array in the EffectsOverlay component so that the most recent effect is the one rendered.
* _On the create screen, the Create button is not fully visible_: To fix this, I would style the map container to grow to fit available visible space within the viewport using CSS, and ensure that the button and input elements had fixed heights.
* _The Catch button does not disappear when a user leaves a game_ - To fix this, I would check to see who is currently able to catch the disconnecting player and send a `player-catch-off` message to them.
*   _When a user disconnects and reconnects:_

    * _Their items don't appear in their inventory_
    * _Messages like "game-end" are not received_
    * _The game time is not displayed correctly (00:00)_
    * _Effects continue if the user was disconnected when the effect was supposed to wear off._\
      __

    To fix this, I will convert the local item and effect states to be retained in the browser after a refresh. When the user reconnects I will also make sure to update their player object with their new socket connection, as well as queuing any messages that were intended for the disconnected player, to send when they reconnect.

**Codebase Restructuring**

_Semantics_

The values `hunter` and `hunted` **** having only a one letter difference means that typos can cause significant issues. In order to fix this, I intend to rename hunter and hunted (internally!), to `catcher` and `hider`. No change will be made to how the names are displayed to the players, given the TV show theme, but this will allow for more readable and less error-prone development. Additionally, I intend to replace the `type` string value on each player with an `isHider` boolean value to simplify player type checking.

_Effect Refactoring_

Currently effects are rendered in a queue like structure, with multiple effects unable to rendered at once. I intend to fix that by modifying my effect overlays to allow them to be:

* Rendered simultaneously: In the case of different effect types
* The most powerful effect being rendered: In the case of the same effect types

#### Testing

After completing all the above tests, my game should be bug free, and continue to pass all my existing development tests. I should also create new tests for these bugs to ensure they are covered and do not break with future changes (if I continue with development). The game could safely be deployed and launched in this state and I would have to decide whether or not to continue with adding more features or complex mechanics.

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

_Current Limitations_

* **Item variety** - This limitation will be addressed by adding all the items discussed in [1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md](../1-analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md "mention").
* **Hacking puzzles** - This limitation will be addressed by adding a system for puzzles and more complex item interactions.
* **More complex item interactions** - This limitation will be addressed by adding a page for item equipping and methods for merging items.
* **Graphics** - This limitation will be addressed by creating some simple monotone icons, and by adding 3D item thumbnails.
* **Tutorials** - This limitation will be addressed by writing tutorial text for key functions of my game, and adding tooltip hints to buttons
* **Misc**_._ **features** - This limitation will be addressed by creating logic to handle a "Turn phone off" button, and a spectator view.

#### Item Variety

Due to time constraints discussed previously in 4.2: [#feature-2-2](4.2-evaluation-of-usability-features.md#feature-2-2 "mention"), only two items are currently in the game. However, whilst implanting these items, I kept flexibility and extendibility in mind, and hence much of the boilerplate required to add items and send messages regarding them - the refactor of the item effect logic in my [#short-term-plan](4.3-maintenance-and-future-development.md#short-term-plan "mention") will also greatly increase developer productivity.

I intend to initially add most of the items in [#power-up-items](../1-analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#power-up-items "mention"), however I would like to experiment with a Plugin System after most of the core limitations have been addressed. This would allow other users to create their own items in my game, allowing for both collaboration and monetization, by creating a limited API for interfacing with my code (which could remain closed-source).

I hypothesise that after more items to my game, the critical thinking requirement will increase, making my game more effective at preventing mental decline.

#### Hacking Puzzles

Adding support for hacking puzzles and mini-games will require a significant development effort. It will however make my game more engaging and is the feature that will require the highest levels of problem solving from my users.

This limitation is a lower priority than the other features discussed here, as it will take the greatest development time, and there are other features which add just as much, if not more, tangible improvement to my game.

#### More complex item interactions

The two primary interactions that will be added are:

* _The ability to merge two items together to create a better item:_ In order to accomplish this, I will need to make some modifications to the inventory design, adding a Merge button either on collection of an item and within the inventory pages themselves. I'll need to create a UI mockup first in order to prevent undue clutter in the item pages, and get feedback on different concepts from users to determine which one is the most efficient and effective.
* _The ability to equip items:_ Some planned items are designed to be "equipped" on a player, such as the Foil Blanket and disguise. In order to avoid confusion between "active" items and "equipped" items, I plan to create a separate tab, where players can view items that are equipped, and remove them and move them back into their inventory where appropriate.

#### Graphics

Instead of coloured dots with the first letter of an item in them I plan to implement more detailed, yet readable icons for each item, which allows you to tell at a glance what each item is. Item's will therefore need to be very simplistic, so they can be shrunk down, or the item size on the map could be increased. I plan to make the icons monotone (one colour), and I would either create them  myself or hire a freelance designer to do so.

Additionally, I plan to add a 3D item model for each item, to further enhance the "hacker" aesthetic of my game, and hence make my game more engaging. I currently plan to embed freely available models I find online, but in future, it might be a worthwhile investment to pay a freelance 3D artist to design some more custom, game specific models.

#### Tutorials

This is undoubtedly the single biggest feature to increase my game's ease-to-learn, effectiveness and efficiency. I plan to add hints and additional information in the following places:

* _Game creation instructions_: Many of my users gave feedback indicating that my game creation page was not as easy to use as I wanted. This can be resolved by adding text to tell the user what to do and how to create the "game area".
* _Item usage pages_: In order to make my game more easy-to-learn, I plan to accompany each item with a page detailing how to use it, and the effect it will have. This would be accessed from the item page, and would follow a hacker aesthetic, including animations and images to illustrate function.
* _Onboarding hints_: When playing your first game, I will make sure to add tooltips (little messages above buttons), that indicate when you should click them and what they do - for example "You're near an item, click this button to pick it up", or "Click the backpack to see the items you've got". These would disappear after the first game, but could be optionally reenabled in a settings screen. This does require storing some data about users, which would likely require a database, or, could alternatively be stored as a cookie on the user's device.

#### Misc_._ features

These are features which don't fall into any particular category, but were included in my success criteria and are yet to be implemented:

* "Turn phone off" button - This button will be included in the extra options (⚙️) page, and its functionality has been discussed at length in [#miscellaneous](../1-analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#miscellaneous "mention"). This will further increase the range of actions a player can do, increasing critical thinking and making my game more complex and engaging.
* "Spectator" mode - After a player has been caught, they are simply removed from the game, and returned to the join screen. Adding a spectator mode would increase engagement of caught players, and could also provide the groundwork for sharing gameplay with others in the form of live-streaming or prerecorded videos.

#### Future limitations

Once I address the limitations discussed above, other limitations will still be present, some of which

* Fitness
* Item Area
* Dangerous item spawning
* Leaderboards
* Streamer/Recording mode
* Hardware requirements



