# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Mechanics

### Hacking Puzzles

This would be feature only available to the Hunters, where there are able to solve brain puzzles in order to "hack" someone they are hunting, and get intelligence about their probable location. The hunters would only be able to "hack" at certain "bases" around the map. These could be predefined or randomly generated.

* **Vigenère cipher**: The player would have to find a cipher key that is is <10 letters related to their location - for instance if they were on "Horns Road", the cipher key could be horn. This would show the Hunter the sector and direction of the nearest "Hunted" player
* **Sudoku**: The player would have to solve a fairly difficult Sudoku puzzle in order to gain information about the players "rough" geographically quadrant (square)
* **Firewall maze escape**. You have to trace a path through a randomly generated maze, to escape the "firewall". If you get to the end, you'll see an arrow in the direction of the nearest player.

### Power-up items

Different items would be available depending on what player you were:

#### Hunters

* **Phone triangulation**: If the hunter finds a phone triangulation kit, they will have to travel to the nearest cell tower (pulled from [Opencellid](https://opencellid.org/)), to obtain a triangulation vector for any chosen player. The hunted players would have the functionality to "turn their phone off", but they would be unable to use any of their items, interact with anything, or see where they were
* **Drones**: If a hunter finds a drone, they can "deploy" it in a certain bearing and it will display the live virtual heat signatures of nearby players - there will be some false positives implemented, to make the item more balanced. It will also have a cooldown time, and Hunters will need to return to a "base" if they want to recharge the drone and use it again. There will be an audible hum audible to nearby players when a drone is flying overhead.
* **Virtualized "public appeal"**: Hunters will as a team have 2 "public appeal" buttons for the entire game. In order to use them, there must be majority approval from the Hunters. This will result in location reports occurring depending on how close the person being Hunted is to a road/urban environment. The location reports are guaranteed to be accurate. There will be a significant delay before the person being Hunted is aware of their public appeal.

#### Hunted

* **GPS Jammer:** If a hunted player finds a GPS player on the ground they will be able to use it for a short period of time. This will scramble the GPS map display of any hunters or hunted players of all players nearby (including the player using the jammer). This will confuse and disorient  the Hunters as well as hindering their team co-ordination.
* **Foil blanket:** If a player finds this item they will be able to equip it, in order to avoid drone detection. If a drone is flying nearby, you will not appear on the heat signature map. This item will not be able to be used at the same time as a disguise.
* **Disguise**: A disguise is a very rare item which would allow the Hunted players to make a public appeal ineffective. It would stop all location reports, and would mean that the Hunters have wasted one of their public appeals. Per game, there would likely be only one or two of these items in the entire map.
* **Stingray:** Similarly to the disguise this is the rarest and most powerful item for Hunted players. It will make a ticking noise, and the frequency of the ticks will represent the proximity of a Hunter (similar to a Geiger counter, in sound). It will only be useable when the player is standing still.

## Limitations

### Limitation 1

Description of a limitation, due to scope/time constraints or difficulty of implementation.
